Funding for UK rare earth projects primarily comes from government-backed initiatives focused on securing supply chains for net-zero technologies, including up to £50 million from the Department for Business and Trade. Key sources include Innovate UK, the Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC), the National Wealth Fund, and UK Export Finance. 
London Stock Exchange
London Stock Exchange
 +2
Key Funding Bodies and Initiatives:
Innovate UK & CLIMATES Programme: The Circular Critical Materials Supply Chains (CLIMATES) programme, launched by the Department for Business and Trade, supports projects from extraction to recycling, including £3.5 million for rare earth supply chain innovations.
Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC): Provides grants through the Automotive Transformation Fund, supporting projects like the HyProMag rare earth magnet recycling facility and the Pensana Saltend refinery.
National Wealth Fund: Invests in strategic projects, including a £26.8 million investment to support the reopening of the South Crofty Tin mine in Cornwall.
UK Export Finance (UKEF): Offers loans, guarantees, and insurance for critical mineral projects, including support for suppliers involved in UK exporter supply chains.
Research Councils: EPSRC provides funding for research in recycling, such as that conducted at the University of Birmingham. 
GOV.UK
GOV.UK
 +7
Areas of Investment:
Recycling & Separation: Projects like HyProMag (based in Birmingham) and Ionic Technologies (Belfast) are key, focusing on recycling magnets from end-of-life components.
** 
London Stock Exchange
London Stock Exchange
 +3



Weardale Lithium has secured grant funding through the UK Government's DRIVE35 Scale-Up: Feasibility Studies competition, supporting the next phase of development at its geothermal lithium project in County Durham.
"Sustainably resourcing tomorrow" 🇬🇧 💧🔋
Department for Business and Trade
Advanced Propulsion Centre UK
#CriticalMinerals #UK #lithium #NorthEast #brine #battery #EV #sustainability


https://www.thinkgeoenergy.com/weardale-lithium-secures-700k-funding-for-geothermal-lithium-project-in-county-durham-uk/?utm_source=Paiger&utm_medium=Referral&amp=1


Exploring for hydrogen, helium and lithium: is it as easy as 1, 2, 3?
Gluyas 2024

https://www.lyellcollection.org/doi/full/10.1144/egc1-2024-13


aaatest

I guess you could write a book about anything- here goes.
Once there was a man who thought about what he wanted to be when he grew up. He didn’t know, but he enjoyed playing so thought why can’t I play forever? In a wocietal format, this meant he played football as much as he could and to do this forever was his ambition. After a while other things took over a bit- mainly through society and options to play football- you need others to suffer to make you feel good, but it is also not really easy to play football forever and hope you can still live a life with plenty of sustainance. This meant that the man needed to find other ways of fillling his time and sustaining a life. He’d also done reasonably well in school tests and gained access to a selective school, whether that is really good thing for sleuth is besides the point, but that probably inflated his ego and made him think he is more important than he really is. Perhaps importance is the wrong way of thinking about it but it is certainly linked to co fidend e and willingness to put himself into positions that many others would shy eapidlay away from. This is a slight retrospective thought as he’s considering this as a near 42 year old who has met and understood people who probably didn’t take this confident approach but were equally or more capable. Why do I think he took a confident approach? Well partly because as an undergraduate he struggled to do very well in exams- but he spent a lot of time stoned or not working that hard, but he did work hard at times- generally treating uni as a day job. So when the exam results came thy weren’t as good as several peers who didn’t seem to be as interested or to get it as himself- but perhaps this judgment is very misguided. The interpretation gave him confidence to proceed further however and family finance enabled this. So he got more advanced qualification and therefore could proclaim to be knowledgable. Reflecting on this it is hard to know whether knowledgable people are especially deserving- they are golden those that can afford to obtain knowledge. 

A blog to address key components of future energy systems:

1. Renewables
Discuss offshore wind
Discuss rooftop solar and my own experience

2. Gas extension
Discuss dispatch ability
Discuss carbon emission intensity and global supply- gas is widely available

3. Hydrogen as an energy carrier
Discuss energy loss
Discuss practicalities- cavern stores, pipelines

4. CCS as a get out of jail free card
Framed as job creation/retention of powerful oil and gas industry.
But can be key to provide certain products in a low carbon future

5. Nuclear power as the ultimate solution

------------------------------------------------------------------

So I have just submitted my final MBA assignment- what now? 

I’ve started chatting to Chaptie about expanding my mind- they've suggested reading Daniel Kahneman and Yuval Noah Harari. It is also suggested that I actually write things- like this dump of words- rather than simply become a consumer. 

Some directions that pair well with your background: 

Behavioral decision-making (e.g., Daniel Kahneman)  

Long-term strategy & history (e.g., Yuval Noah Harari)  

Power and strategy (often underexplored but very real in energy systems) 

 

Take a complex idea you’re exploring (e.g., CCS vs offshore wind strategy) and explain it in plain language as if to a non-expert. You’ll immediately see gaps. This is closely related to the Feynman Technique—one of the fastest ways to deepen understanding. 

So- I should probably look to build on my knowledge of oil and gas, renewables, and MBA- but where to start? 

Try and have “Deep thinking blocks” (no interruptions, 60–90 mins) and separate Shallow/reactive time (emails, admin, etc.) 

TRYING TO ANSWER THESE... 



“What do I believe that isn’t obvious to others in my field?” 

The CCS industry is strange. It provides safety for many looking to repurpose skills- but fundamentally it does provide fossil fuel providers a get out of jail free card. 

We can do it- and it allows improvements from a carbon counting perspective- but it doesn’t get to the root of the problem- demand for energy and ignorance of waste among consumers.





“How do my ideas interact? Where are the feedback loops?” 



“What’s the deeper pattern here?” 




Every few weeks, step back and ask: 

"What am I actually getting better at thinking about?"
  

"Where is my perspective becoming more original?"
  

"Am I drifting into comfort again?"









